src/pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: ../layouts/AboutLayout.astro
title: "About"
---

AstroPaper is a minimal, responsive and SEO-friendly Astro blog theme. I designed and crafted this based on [my personal blog](https://satnaing.dev/blog).

This theme is aimed to be accessible out of the box. Light and dark mode are supported by
default and additional color schemes can also be configured.

This theme is self-documented \_ which means articles/posts in this theme can also be considered as documentations. So, see the documentation for more info.

<div>
  <img src="/dev.svg" class="sm:w-1/2 mx-auto" alt="coding dev illustration">
</div>

## Tech Stack

This theme is written in vanilla JavaScript (+ TypeScript for type checking) and a little bit of ReactJS for some interactions. TailwindCSS is used for styling; and Markdown is used for blog contents.

## Features

Here are certain features of this site.

- fully responsive and accessible
- SEO-friendly
- light & dark mode
- fuzzy search
- super fast performance
- draft posts
- pagination
- sitemap & rss feed
- highly customizable

If you like this theme, you can star/contribute to the [repo](https://github.com/satnaing/astro-paper).  
Or you can even give any feedback via my [email](mailto:contact@satnaing.dev).

Commit message:

update configs, change styles
Signed-off-by: pranshu-raj-211 <pranshuraj65536@gmail.com>

src/pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: ../layouts/AboutLayout.astro
title: "About"
---

Hi, I'm **Pranshu Raj** — a backend engineer and systems thinker.

I use this space to write about building scalable systems, working with real-time infrastructure, and making tools that help me (and hopefully others) think and work better.

I tinker with real-time systems, build tools to offload thinking, and chase the balance between speed, simplicity, and usefulness.

## What You’ll Find Here

- **Tech deep dives** — performance tuning, real-time systems, backend tricks.
- **Build logs** — documenting how I approach and ship personal projects.
- **Tools & automations** — things I build to reduce friction in life and work.
- **Ideas & reflections** — learning in public, experimenting with structure and focus.

I keep my rough notes in a separate [website](https://pranshu-raj-211.github.io)

## About This Site

This blog is built using **Astro**, styled with **TailwindCSS**, and deployed via **Cloudflare Pages**. I picked this stack to keep things fast, simple, and distraction-free.

Check out my [GitHub](https://github.com/pranshu-raj-211) or reach out on [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/pranshuraj2004).

---

Stay curious.
